# facemask
Face Mask Detection System Using OpenCV in Machine Learning

It is a system which will detect a person is wearing a mask or not. In this pandemic situation we often see that people are not wearing mask properly. And it is hard to keep notice them all time in a crowded place.For this problem we made this project. We implement this system using machine learning. We first need to collect images of human faces for using them as a data. For this we have to know about the image processing. In image processing there are some steps which we have to do, like first load the images, we did this using python and then convert the images into array Because to perform algorithm or mathematical logic array is needed. To perform all this problem we used openCV. It is a library function of machine learning in python. It will help us to load the images and convert them into array. Each index of the array represent (RGB) colour pixel which ranges from 0 to 255. After that to perform the algorithm we used Viola Jones algorithms. Viola and Jones are the first person who created the algorithm to detect every body parts of an human body. In this algorithm there are some parts, and we used the Haar features selection function for facial detection. Haar feature selection recognise the common features of an object like in facial detection it will recognise the nose, eyes, mouth, eyebrows of the face. Then we will take two types of data with mask and without mask. And apply this algorithm and using OpenCV we will get the output as he is wearing mask or not
